With fuel prices spiraling out of control,
many people are becoming desperate to find alternatives.
It's not that alternatives haven't been there all along,
they've simply been cloaked in secrecy and suppressed.
All to promote the continued use of oil.
The one commodity that controls most of our lives.
Thomas Valone is a physicist and engineer
who also publishes Future Energy magazine.
His day job is as a patent examiner for the US government.
This puts him in direct contact with many
of these exotic technologies.
Technologies that could have changed
the future condition of our beauiful planet.
One of the most profound new automobile breatkthroughs
was the water car.
(slow paced music)
I wanted to start this in a place all of us get.
We're beginning to grow.
Specially with the Al Gore's release of the movie
"An Inconvenient Truth,"
but for many people way before that.
And that is the truth behind the subject of global warming.
From a scientific point of view,
and you've been in alternative energies,
technologies for many, many years.
So I'm sure you've made it a point
to know this information inside out and backwards.
What's the truth behind global warming?
What are we up against or not?
Well to begin global warming,
which I always include in my presentations
on future energy,
one thing that is very simply provable,
is that the Arctic ice cap has been
steadily melting for years.
And the funny thing is
that it's happening within our lifetime.
There was a Time magazine article
from several years ago that actually
showed a nice little graph of how in 1980
the average thickness was about 16 feet
and now the average thickness of the Arctic ice cap
is around eight feet thick.
Wow, that's a lot of
loss in a short time.
It was only 20 years.
And so we're looking at
a maximum of 20 years more,
and the entire antarctic ocean will actually
be visible and open to shipping.
What does this mean?
Well, the implication for the earth
and for our climate, besides the political advantage
for countries that want to exploit it
is that we're now faced with an opposite sink.
We still have this day,
heat sink at the top and bottom of our world.
We're about to lose one of the heat sinks.
And that means that where heat used to go
to dissipate, it can't go anymore.
And furthermore, what's worse about that
is the Arctic ice cap was the size of North America
reflecting most of the light.
White reflects with light.
The albedo is totally gonna change
with the ocean being visible
for that same area it'll be absorptive.
And this is a compounding exponential additive.
Where you have normal global warming
and then you have this extra feature.
And there's lots of extra features they're
now discovering that make a runaway
chain reaction type of catastrophic jump
to a new thermal level
that of course we won't anticipate until it happens
and then wonder why we didn't do something about it.
And we're talking the relatively near future.
Within our lifetime, within 20 years.
Within 20 years and the effects
could be, I assume, rising sea levels.
Absolutely, well not from the Arctic.
And I have to clarify this.
Wherever ice floats in water,
you won't get an increase
That makes sense.
in ice and sea level.
However, there's a graph that I show
that I give credit to Jim Hansen
for publishing it in many places,
including MIT's technology review.
And this is a 400,000 year graph
of the Greenland ice cap.
And so they got a nice half million year record
of the sea level temperature
and the carbon dioxide level.
For all those years.
And the amazing thing when you look at the entire graph
and I chopped it and made it a page length
to make it a little more beginning and end type of episode.
You see that the three track, they're lockstepped
for all the years.
They go through the ice ages very nicely together,
where it's going up and down together
for say 90, 80,000 years.
And then we got, as we now have had
a 10,000 year interglacial period.
But the strange thing is,
never in those 400,000 years
has the carbon dioxide level exceeded
300 parts per million.
We're at 380 right now,
we're expected to exceed 400.
The amount of carbon dioxide we have
is way above the other two lines.
And temperature is just starting to catch up
because the carbon dioxide it jumped
so fast within just the past century.
So what I explain to the audience is that
we are no already in debt
for the temperature catch up and for the sea level catch up.
With no way to pay off the debt.
The only way is to reduce the carbon dioxide level
from where it is now downward.
And of course in the near horizon,
the next five or 10 years there's
nothing of global significance.
Except for maybe Russ George's approach
to get millions of tons out of the air.
But about 8,000,000,000 tons of carbon dioxide
are needed to be sequestered.
And plankton's beein doing it very nicely.
You can cause plankton blooms as Russ George
does with his company Planktos.
Well let's talk about
that for a minute
But it's still a long shot.
because Richard Branston,
owner of Virgin Airlines has put out
this $25,000,000 reward for anyone
who can find a genuine solution to the problem.
And now in response to that,
Russ Gordon has come up with an interesting concept.
Russ George.
Russ George, excuse me.
Could you please go ahead and tell us what that is?
Well, planktos.com is the company.
It's publicly trading.
I encourage people to actually
give their support to the company.
The strange thing is, and this is really literally
out of the book, "Structure of Scientific Revolutions,"
by Thomas Kuhn.
I use that as a guide book because what Thomas Kuhn
predicts is that any time you do something
that's revolutionary, something new,
something scientifically unprovable at the moment,
immediately the first stage is opposition.
And it's irrational opposition.
And darn it, would you believe Russ George
got attacked like crazy in all the major media.
Scientific American, Time magazine--
So this solution he's proposing.
Yeah, and the strange thing is he watches science programs
and they say yes planktons sequestors carbon dioxide,
and you know, it's been doing it for millions of years
and it falls down to the bottom of the ocean.
You can actually see it.
That the carbon does in 50 to 70% of it
still goes below the thermal climb and so forth.
This is so acceptable science
that no one could question the actual science of it.
Let's talk about what
he's actually suggesting.
But he's artificially stimulating it
by adding extra iron powder.
Which is normally--
So he wants to add extra iron powder
to make a really healthy plankton flourish again?
That's right, to bloom.
To bloom and you can see it from a satellite image.
You've all of a sudden got a green area
that's now very vital.
But as soon as it absorbs the carbon dioxide,
which plants do, it will actually start to die
and bring it down to the bottom of the ocean.
Which is exactly what we want.
So what are the implications
of artificially adding iron to that environment?
Are there some negative?
Are there any complications or is it--
I wrote to the editor of IEEE Spectrum.
I'm a member of IEEE and I felt insulted
when they did an issue on 10 do's or don'ts.
Or winners or losers.
The technology assessment of the past year.
And of course Russ George was one page loser.
That's literally what they called him.
And the article read like an irrational
grandmother's opinion from some--
Well what are they saying?
What are they objecting to with this?
I mean I know you don't wanna mess with any system,
but we've already messed with it so badly
we're probably gonna have
That's my point.
to mess with it to get it back
on some level.
That's my point.
I'd rather not dwell on the negative too much
because the strange thing is as you read
each of the articles there's no real substance
to the negative side.
However, the positive side has great benefits.
It doesn't hurt marine life?
No, they can't find a substitive negative impact.
Well then why are they all over him?
Because the scientists haven't tested it yet.
(Thomas laughs)
And literally that's the end of the article.
This hasn't been approved by the scientist's.
And would you believe Woods Hole in California
just a conference on this whole issue.
A closed door conference with scientists
trying to figure it out.
"Hey will this actually work?"
They didn't invite Russ George,
but they're trying to figure out
could he possibly be right?
What's Richard Branson have to say?
He's holding his money waiting.
I even talked to,
Tippler, there's several agents for Branson
that are at these conferences
where you get to meet their right hand man.
And they're also very cagey.
They're still on the fence.
They want agreement to the whole scientific
community apparently before they'll hand over the money.
Which is unfortunate.
Oh well then nothing.
I mean how is that ever going to work?
We already know the end of that story.
Yeah, if we wait till everything's a proven theory
it's gonna be too late.
But we can't go past 450 parts per million
on the earth's carbon dioxide level
or else it will be an irreversible change.
And we're at 380.
Right, right, it'll take a Herculean effort.
In fact, that's why I'm giving a talk today
on the archetypal significance of future energy.
Because when you look at the Greek Gods
you get these archetypal images of what
happens when you add fire to your energy.
Then you've got all kinds of problems,
and impacts, and negative problems
that have to be paid off.
Can you give just a
little bit of that to us now?
Prometheus is a great example.
And unfortunately when you're stealing fire
and wanting to use it for mankind,
which is exactly what we've done for the past 100 years,
Tesla predicted, he said when you use fuel
for mankind we're gonna have to stop it
for the sake of future generations.
Because of the negative consequences.
There are all kinds.
You're using a wast product that's a
morbid death containing fossil.
This is our ancestors if you wanna look at it that way.
You're digging up the graves of the ancestors
and we're adding fire to it.
It's so disgusting.
Primitive.
Primitive is the word for it.
That you end up realizing death begets death.
And of course that's what we're doing to our atmosphere.
We're adding pollution from burning of dead things
to add more death to our living systems.
And it's a contradictory thing.
We can't produce life from burning dead things.
Let's talk about rising temperature
and the implications then for a moment.
There have been plenty of programs on that.
The latest one was Six Degrees Could Change the World
by National Geographic, it's on DVD.
I advise everyone to go to that website.
It's a one step beyond what the inconvenient truth
ever predicted.
Al Gore was very cautionary in saying if this if that.
Well, this show tells you exactly what
one degree C, two degree C, three degrees.
And when you get beyond three degree C
which is what the graph predicts
we are already destined for, it's catastrophic.
Life starts end not only sea level,
we're talking sea level of the 10's of meters.
This particular graph I point to,
when you try to match up temperature
and sea level to where we are right now
for carbon dioxide, we're talking about
80 meters of sea level rise.
80 meters is, I thought, this can't be right.
80 meters translate to feet
for American audiences.
So about 180, 200 feet right?
At least.
And if we keep it approximate it's easier to grasp.
Because to me even 10 or 20 meters
seems to be very difficult to comprehend.
People don't wanna swallow it.
I've been Pacific islands and sea level areas
where you realize, this is not gonna
remain very much longer.
'Cause even a 10 meter rise is gonna be
catastrophic for all these big properties
right on the ocean.
That's right.
But the point I'm trying to emphasize,
this is actually feasible.
And the reason is, when you combine Greenland
and you combine Antarctica,
both landlocked glaciers together
you get 70 meters of sea level rise.
It's already ready.
Greenland's moving fast, it's the fastest moving
glacier system in the world.
It's going towards the sea like there's no tomorrow.
You can actually watch it move daily, 100 feet per day.
Really, 100 feet a day.
Yeah, and the Antarctic, I just saw it,
it was like any day now this whole western cliff
of Antarctica's about to break.
There's a landlocked glacier bridge
that is already melting, collapsing.
And then this whole glacier
waiting to just drop in the ocean.
So Antarctica and the Greenland icecaps,
ice covering are just melting like crazy.
I'd like to look on the good side
as part of what we can do.
Because this is definitely
Yes, I wanted to
an emergency situation.
start looking
at the solutions.
Let me ask you this before we get to that.
How much of this is man produced
as a result of our bad habits we've developed,
our gulping of oil, and the resultant effects,
versus also some cosmic things that are happening as well.
I mean a lot of solar activity and so forth.
Is it both that are impacting it?
We can't effect one but we can effect the other.
What's the truth on that, do you know?
Yes, and the media have always
tried to play that role of looking at
the opposite natural occurrences.
We're way beyond the natural occurrences.
And in fact that graph I referred to,
Jim Hansen's NASA graph points out
that if we were within the natural ranges,
we would have confined ourselves
to the carbon dioxide levels that we've seen
for the past 400,000 years.
That's very true.
We go through so many ice ages
that everything that could have happened
did happen except for mans interference.
Okay, so we've put that to rest.
Now let's look at what man can do
because you've been involved with alternative energies.
You're a very creative mind and inventor.
Not just an engineering physicist,
so you're a brainiac.
Let's get into some of the technologies
and I want a really down to earth view
of which of the alternative technologies look like
they really have legs
in the very near future.
I mean we know about hybrid technology.
A lot of us are already on board with that.
What's coming after hybrid technology
that you can see that's affordable and doable?
Just for cars, we're just looking
at transportation right now.
If we're talking near future,
the near future we really foresee, our institute foresees
the electric car becoming a mainstay.
It's interesting to me to find that GM
produced the electric car and then destroyed all of them
because they were competition to the gasoline burners.
And a conflict of interest for their own company.
Yes, it killed the electric car.
I think we have that posted on our site.
Everybody should watch that film by the way.
Okay, I'm glad 'cause we had Chelsea Sexton
as the star of the show that
explained problems she experienced.
But suffice it to say this is actually a good sign.
I suffered the same thing in 99
when I had my first conference on future energy.
I got fired from the patent office
and was really disparagingly
attacked by every media.
Because you presented at this conference?
I organized the conference.
It was supposed to be at the
state department at Washington D.C.,
planned for a whole year.
And then a certain Dr. Zimmerman decided
to interfere and say "Oh we're gonna have
"peer review of your papers" a month
before it was scheduled to occur.
No peer review ever happened.
He just decided to discount every speaker that I had.
And unfortunately even when I tried to go back
to the commerce department where I work,
seeing if the auditorium was available,
that became the cause of my dismissal.
Because they accused me of conflict of interest
and misrepresentation.
But the good thing that came out of it,
I'm trying to draw a parallel here,
is that when you initially experience
what Russ George is experiencing as well,
the original irrational opposition that's
very strong and very intense and unexpected.
Surprisingly I found a rebound.
I regained my job, I got back pay,
a bigger chunk of back pay than anyone else.
Six years of fighting the patent office.
But I learned a lot, got my PhD while I was out.
And also benefited so much so
that I met the director who saw my dismissal case
and said, "I don't see anything wrong with this,
"must be political," why I was being fired.
And so director Allen Smith said,
"I'm gonna try to form a technology forum on the same
"format that Tom Valone was actually organizing."
The very next year.
And so every year since then,
my dream is actually perpetuated through the patent office.
That's fabulous.
(both laugh)
Well let's look at some of that technology then,
you're talking about the electric car.
It was around 100 years ago.
Yeah, this is an archetypal perception
that yeah it's been suppressed twice now.
And so that to me is a good sign.
Because when I take a union approach
of archetypal significance here the
negative forces, the shadow,
whatever you want to call it is trying
to suppress something of great good,
of general goodness and light.
And also not having the fire associated
with the fossil fuel burning.
When you look at air, earth, fire, and water,
as potential sources of energy.
Air and water perhaps are some of the ones
that we should be looking at.
So anyways, the significance is that the electric
car now with the Tesla Roadster
actually uses a whole series of thousands
of small lithium batteries.
And I do a Future Energy E-News
that anyone can subscribe to if they like for free.
Oh we'll have a link to that here.
Every month they send out and this month,
I reprinted an article that actually describes
the companies that make the lithium batteries.
So the technology exists?
Not only exists, they've improved it.
And they've improved it.
Yeah they've improved it.
And now the piece here that seems
to hang things up is it actually affordable
for use in cars?
Well see, we're talking the near future.
And I'm trying to give a five 10 year type of,
let's say 10 years time frame for the near future scenario.
That yes, we are going to see not only electric cars
but solar powered recharging stations.
And there's four major improvements
in solar energy electro photovoltaics
that have now surfaced in various laboratories.
Even the number of photons you can generate.
I'm sorry, the number of electrons
you can generate per photon.
Now it's one to one.
And Los Alamos has discovered they can
actually produce two or three on each photon coming in.
Good news.
There are photovoltaics just discovered
in all of Versaille that work on infrared as well.
And you don't need sunlight.
To generate electricity.
About 15 years ago I saw a little documentary,
I think it was called The Pheonix Project,
or something when I was doing environmental news reporting.
And they were showing the prototypes
from both BMW and Mercedes of
their cars that were running on hydrogen cells
that were powered by the sun, solar hydrogen.
What about that technology?
What happened to that?
Was it just too volatile or expensive to continue,
or have they continued?
I've seen so many negative articles about hydrogen
that even though I subscribe and have
reprinted articles about solar hydrogen,
to me it's still a boondoggle.
Because the infrastructure you need
through any city or country to support an energy source.
Like natural gas, natural gas luckily
and over the 20 year period has introduced
different natural gas stations
where you can refill a car or a truck
if it's running on that fuel.
But hydrogen doesn't have any fueling stations.
And even when it does,
it's very expensive to install that type of system.
And unfortunately the major car producers
haven't subscribed to paying for that infrastructure.
The government would rather spend money elsewhere.
So we really have a problem with
hydrogen implications and installations.
The other problem with hydrogen too
is that you're dealing with another fire explosive
type of mixture.
It's nice that it has water as a byproduct,
but still, we have a refilling issue.
And the refilling issue is just as urgent
as the gasoline issue.
I'm getting empty, where's the next station?
That can't be a very compatible future
image for the 21st century.
Right, so you're looking instead
at solar powered electric?
Right.
Which that does make a lot of sense.
For the near term.
It's in the near future.
What would happen, I don't know if you
have any of these stats or can even extrapolate
from what knowledge you have.
If we were to say within five years go hybrid.
The newer technologies in hybrid
which has improved battery power already.
Prius is getting ready to release the 2009
at the end of the year and they're
touting that at 80 miles a gallon.
Which realistically means we have a Prius.
Realistically means probably 65 or 70.
That's still pretty good.
Not as good as this little jet car at 120 miles a gallon.
But what would happen there just with the
cleanliness of the system?
Oh absolutely, you'd get literally about 50% improvements.
The studies have already been done.
The government, the DOE, EIA have made predictions.
You can save millions of tons of CO2.
So it's a very favorable direction to go.
I think the car industries are already
forced to go in that direction
because of the foreign influences.
You know, Japan and many other countries
have surpassed the mileage that we're
experiencing in this country.
So the urgency to stay in business
is very important to them.
So hybrid's definitely are a near future experience.
The other thing I should point out though
is that there are cars called theaircar.com.
Right, the air car I was going to ask you--
Which is also developing a hybrid.
And then you've got no fuel at all to worry about.
Except for running that little charger
which could even be electric.
Let's talk about it.
Explain a little bit without getting too technical
about the air car.
Oh the air car's real simple.
You just use compressed air into the tank
and you're running the pistons on compressed air.
Simple.
And actually the one in Australia uses
a rotary wankel design which is even more efficient
and reduces an engine like this down
to half the size and half the weight.
So the compressed air business,
even though at this time it's a short
few hundred mile type of estimate
on per tank full,
you can still carry the compressor with you.
And then the hope is for the Air Car company
to and actually the current project is
to provide a hybrid that will actually power the compressor.
And they're planning to have a car go across Australia
one whatever tank full they would provide.
So that's exciting.
So now how far off do you see that technology?
Oh that's definitely a five 10 year--
A five to 10 year also.
The air car luckily is available in many countries.
Except for the U.S. so far.
Okay yeah.
And right now, I mean the hassle people
have to go to to convert their car to electric
with the old battery technology
certainly has been somewhat prohibitive and clumsy.
So within you say, five to 10 years we can
be looking at electric even solar electric.
And we can also be looking at the air car
in the interim, the hybrids.
One of the hybrids is probably the best way to go
until that window shows up where we can
start purchasing these other technologies.
Especially for the environmentally conscious consumer.
Okay, speaking of the air car,
Stanley Myers, this is an incredible story.
He's passed away in the last several months.
Incredible, it appeared everyone was excited
about his invention.
Now you talked to Stanley before he passed away.
What happened?
What happened to him when he tried to get this out?
Well, Stan Myers told me at that dinner
when we had dinner at a conference
that he had the experience of applying for a patent
on a car that would run on water.
And the interesting thing was his invention
was designed to provide an easy,
low energy electrolysis of water.
And by doing that he'd be supplying
the cylinders of a standard engine
with the hydrogen necessary to combust.
Hydrogen and oxygen are necessary
to combust and recombine.
And it just requires a little bit
of change in the carburetor.
So the patent application was in
and all of a sudden he gets a call from the Pentagon
saying that he has to come to the Pentagon the next day.
And he refused and luckily he was
a former military person who had experience
with their techniques or their traditions.
But then a couple Pentagon people showed up
at his door the next day, so he had to go with them.
He didn't have a choice.
Exactly.
So the interesting confrontation was that,
and I forgot the type of the rank that was
maybe a general or whoever the important
Pentagon official was that was confronting him.
They explained to him that his patent
was going to be secretized.
And this is a standard procedure for something
that has national interest and also over 4,000
patents have suffered that at the patent office already.
What does this mean when they're secretized?
Well they end up in a vault
and they sit there for at least 50 years.
And why were they going
to do this to his technology?
Did they explain?
Yeah, and actually in their particular point of view,
the Pentagon felt that they wanted to use
this technology for their own military vehicles.
And he explained that if they keep it secret for themselves,
then the rest of the world will also get ahead of us.
Stan Meyers was very strategic in his
description of the political and the military disadvantage
that will result from that one sided unilateral
approach to deprive the United States
of this technology and yet the rest of the world
still has access to it.
And he explained for some reason that his
patent application or his papers,
something had already been released.
Much like Ken Shoulders did.
Ken Shoulders used the exact same technique
when the military officials arrived at his door.
Explain Ken Shoulders.
Well Ken Shoulders had one of the top rated
national interest invention for several years
on the DIA list.
And this is recounted in the book by Taggart.
It's a field type of book.
A very interesting interview with Shoulders had put off--
Taggart you're talking about in the field?
Yes we have an interview with her.
And her book recounts this exact story.
So when I heard it from Ken Shoulders
I didn't know it had already been documented.
But Ken's approach was he knew that
if you get some record,
like a notebook or an actual published book
out of the country,
then when they show up at the door
to give you the papers of your invention being classified,
you basically just tell them too late.
And he did.
And unfortunately the military official got red in the face
and extremely angry.
(Thomas laughs)
No kidding, well Stanley's not here anymore.
Right, yeah.
But the issue was there that he did convince them,
Stanley Myers did convince the Pentagon official
not to classify that particular invention.
He did receive the patent.
Unfortunately he didn't get too many people
to market it or to buy the license to produce it.
And there's a lot of conspiracy stories
of even his last day when he had dinner
with someone that he was negotiating
to license the invention
and he ran out of the restaurant saying he's been poisoned.
So who knows what happened to Stan Myers.
But this is not an unusual story by the way.
I believe you're right.
There are people
who have come up with these exotic,
not exotic alternative technologies and inventions.
Anything that seems to cut in on big oil.
Right.
Seems to have very interesting stories
attached to it.
And that is the sad part of this legacy to this point.
So I don't know the answer to that
and other than that we have to collectively
somehow manifest this.
And I don't know the answer to how
we overcome these obstacles.
Yeah, I even saw this personally
at a Tesla conference years ago.
About 10 years ago.
And I haven't kept
in touch with the PhD who was giving the lecture,
but he was interpreting Henry Maury's invention.
And he had discovered how to produce
the Henry Maury invention which is a
free energy devise that needs to be powered
just by a small nuclear source like a beta source.
But the fascinating thing was that he was
ready to give the talk and someone is pulling
on his shirt sleeves telling him,
"No you can't give this talk.
"No you can't give the talk."
And the interesting thing is as this
rumor started going around he told a
few people who this person was.
He had already shown a fake CIA badge
at the registration desk.
(Both laugh)
Interesting.
You never know where they're coming from
but most likely is one of the fossil fuel industries
that have plenty of money even as the
American Petroleum Institute had had for about
eight years now.
To fund the media stories that would
counteract climate change stories.
And they were successful,
they actually discovered a memo
that Al Gore has now circulated and others have
successfully obtained when there is confusion
in the perception of climate change.
That's it, just information campaign
they abound everywhere.
Especially around this subject.
So yeah, that's very interesting.
Let's look at going beyond that into.
I wanna talk a little bit more about photovoltaic cells
because you mention there's this new technology
that's coming through right now.
We've wanted to do this for along time
to take the house off the grid.
But the last time anyone gave us an estimate
it's still $30,000 to make that conversion.
At what point, again, how far out in the future
do you see it where we can affordably
start making these conversions
or even add them to new construction, build them in?
Well, actually, the technology's available today
and the exciting thing is that there are
concentrated solar and also the
plastic solars.
I'm trying to picture the name because I'm a visual person,
but it starts with a K.
It's something like kah-roh-lah or kah-no-lah.
My brain works like yours.
Kah-nih-kah, I think it's Kah-nih-kah perhaps.
But the company is on my website.
It's one of the recent e-news stories.
And they now produce a plastic
formable type of photovoltaic that absorbs
the infrared and actually is very affordable.
And the interesting thing is if you're looking
at kilowatts or generation,
you're looking at only an investment,
capital investment of maybe $10,000.
In a pay back of about three years.
Considerable improvement.
And now, even looking at that for,
say if we start having some issues,
brown outs and so forth.
If we start having some disruptions in systems
and if it all ties into the economy
and other things of course.
But if we start having brown outs,
certainly one of the big problems is, for example,
you lose the food in your refrigerator and your freezer.
And are there smaller systems that are available
just to even if you could just power your
refrigeration source for example,
or if you have a well, the well pump source.
Things like this.
Well that's a very good point you made.
And in fact if there are people considering
getting one foot in the door
that will be the best thing to design.
Is simply a backup system that would work for a day.
And so you're not perhaps designing
the system to run the whole house forever,
but just the major utilities.
I mean the appliances that you rely upon.
And if it's either the furnace or the air conditioner
and the refrigerator, those kilowatt demands
perhaps will be sizeably smaller wattage
that needs to be addressed.
And so just addressing that with some
battery backup systems.
We use UPS all the time for our computers.
Because in the Washington D.C area we tend
to have little glitches that will cause
the computer to reset and you lose the data.
So computer users are used to having backups
but home users haven't thought about it
until you get a week long blackout.
Which we've had in the D.C. area too
and other places throughout the country.
I kept one newspaper article where a million
people were without electricity because of some storm.
I thought "This has gotta change."
Because it's bad enough to get a storm
that makes all kinds of damage to your home and property,
like hurricanes in Florida.
Regular occurrences all the time.
And of course then you have to lose
your electricity on top of that?
Right.
This is not modern society.
Right, no, no, that does sound
pretty primitive that we become that dependant on it.
To compound the problem.
Yes, to compound the problem.
So people can go to your site and they can find
kah-nah-kah or kah-nah-koh or something like that.
Kahr-nih-ka, yeah I believe it's the--
Whatever, to see--
But to tell you the truth there are
experts in the field such as Home Power magazine.
I direct people to Home Power all the time.
I love their work and it's so practical.
You open up the magazine, here's the article,
and here's how to do it.
Oh very good.
And here's where to buy the stuff.
Dot com I take it?
Yup, homepower.com.
Okay, I've got that written down here.
Let's go into some of the more
as they call them exotic technologies.
And one you're intimately familiar with
because you've written a book on it, "Zero Point Energy."
This is really exciting in terms of a view of our,
maybe a little bit further out futures
and what the future can look like
in terms of absolutely clean energy.
You got to laughing and you have
a little dampness under your eyes.
It's an emotional issue for me.
Give us a primer on.
Do you wanna go ahead and just go like that for a sec?
Does it help?
Both eyes.
There you go, there you go.
Why don't you give us a little primer on zero point energy
and maybe even starting with that quote from Tesla.
From I believe it was 1891.
The interesting thing about zero point energy
is that it's an all pervading sea of energy.
And really Tesla was the first to recognize
it's existence and 1891 was when he said
that someday we will actually run
our vehicles by harnessing
the very wheel work of nature.
And he described that anywhere in the universe
this would be accessible.
So he had a visionary conscience.
And certainly even for example,
measured the earth's human resonance
50 years before human got credit for doing so.
And this is fabulous insight that he had
even for wireless transmission of power.
Which is a subject of my other book,
"Harnessing the Wheel Work of Nature."
And see, even wireless transmission
is something that people haven't comprehended.
Very few electrical engineers even comprehend it.
Dr. Jim Corum who's a professor
from West Virginia University is probably
one of the few in the world that actually is
an expert in that field.
He was one of our speakers at our conference
of future energy.
Actually our Tesla conference.
And to put a long story short,
the transmission around the earth
of any sizeable power wattage density
that you can actually use to power appliances
tends to be 90% 95% or higher in efficiency.
If you're transmitting it pulsory eight hertz.
So zero point energy" is sort of one step beyond that
where you can even go off the earth and still access it.
But what I find is to explain zero point energy
is literally the little bit of quantum fluctuation
that makes the uncertainty principle real.
And that's the best way to explain it
because we've all grown accustomed
to Eisenberg's perception that there is uncertainty
in the world and that it behaves as if you
can't quite get an exact measurement of one distance
and momentum or energy in time.
And the fluctuations that are preventing that from happening
are so fundamental that they actually
cause fluctuations in material things.
Such as particles, electrons, nuclei.
And the strange thing is even liquid helium.
I recite that as an example of proof of zero point energy.
You try to freeze liquid helium
even down to below one degree absolute,
to micro degrees of absolute zero.
And still it stays liquid.
So zero point energy is exhibiting itself
as a non- thermal energy that causes
the same type of jiggling that thermal energy
does to everything else.
So with this energy field,
or this energy presence,
how do you take that and convert it
and capture whatever it converted into something
that generates propulsion systems
or powers anything for that matter.
How are we looking at utilizing that
or tapping into it, harnessing it?
Well that's a mixed question, loaded question,
because it covers several fields of application.
But if I just look at the electrical energy applications,
which is what most people desire right away,
I answer that with how it manifests itself.
And there are articles by Koke and Blanco
who have actually seen and published
journal articles from their laboratory experiments
that have proven in semiconductors and in coils
you can actually measure the jiggling electrons.
Now to me this is very significant
because even when you get to semiconductors
there's what's called a P-N junction
or a standard rectifying diode
that allows electricity to go only in one direction.
And so when you're aware of that potential,
that zero point energy is manifesting
itself also right at the junction,
then to me there's the great potential
for allowing electrons to go in one direction.
Powered solely by the quantum fluctuations.
Interesting, yes.
And do you think this is something that is
for in an applied sense is going to again
be practically available?
I absolutely do.
I see no reason that it can't be.
And the fact is all the experiments have been done
to prove it's real.
Only they've been done in microscopic circuit confluence.
So the visionary approach is, for example,
there's Charles Brown patent that actually
is I would say a template for providing this type of power.
He's one of the first to actually recommend
using diodes.
He says to use metal to metal diodes.
Whether or not that particular style is useful,
only time will tell, but my preference is to go
with zero bias diodes.
Zero bias diodes don't require any voltage at all
to jump over the gap.
Jump over that junction.
And when they do they can't get back.
And that's exactly what we want.
Something that's easy to go into the trap
but you can't get out of it.
And the electrons then have to keep flowing
in the one direction that it started to.
And of course you can charge a battery,
you can power an appliance.
But the funny things is you need lots
of these microscopic array.
In other words an array of diodes on sheet,
and then several sheets of them
so you get say a cubic meter of diodes.
And this technology's already available
in our flat screen TV's.
We've been using diodes all the time now
to substitute for the cathode ray tubes.
So we made the transition for our amusement,
but we haven't made it for our energy source.
Well let's say this is the
prevailing energy source for our electric needs.
For example, going back to the archetypes.
What are the archetypal implications
of having this prevail as our energy source?
Over what's currently happening.
What does this look like in our world?
Well, the archetype for that is hyperion
and it's the source of the sun's energy
and the moon's energy.
So you really get a fundamental
non-corporeal energy source
that then manifests as visible
sun and light energies.
And this is probably the most futuristic
and also the most acceptable
energy source that we can imagine.
Zero point energy not only
has been the subject of psychic discoveries for example.
Where they've done a 20 50 project.
And I'll think of the PhD's name who did
the project with thousands of people.
And they were asking questions about
what the year 2050 would be like
in terms of many things including energy.
But the energy question was universally
the majority of them described it as
being solved with small cubic
type of generators in the home, and in the vehicles,
and in the businesses, and aircraft.
And this is exactly the type of archetype
that the zero point energy generator will portray.
And the nice things is they under
this questioning, semi hypnotic type of
remote viewing of the future were
describing exactly this type of thing as being,
"Oh the energy problem has been solved."
And that's exactly the phrase
and I would say the affirmation
that I'm constantly repeating to myself.
I'm trying to envision and create that panacea.
Where the energy problem has been solved.
Because our human race I don't believe
will survive if we can't solve it.
It's just that crucial.
Yes, everything indicates
that what you say is true.
Studies of societies have shown they collapse
if they can't completely exponentially increase
their energy sources every 10 years or so.
Yes, and interesting you were talking
about some of the more as you say,
mystical views of it.
But also, I happen to open your book
and the first thing that drew my attention.
I just opened it right in the middle
this morning and I saw Claude Swanson
talking about the fact that backgrounds
are where energy can be strongly effected
by the mind.
What are the implications of that?
Well, you're getting me into an area
that I unfortunately did open the door for.
So I guess I'm ready for it.
It's an area that we love.
That's great.
Well as Steven Greer very graciously
says to his audiences,
"Prayer and affirmation are very important.
"The more we pray for what we want,
"the more likely it is we'll get it."
And of course,
I think it's the
coast to coast program,
that's proven when you get a million reviewers
that all of a sudden you can get them
to start affirming and praying
and something magical will happen.
You gotta quantum...
Even as Sheldrick has pointed out
there's a certain critical mass
of people that could probably make a difference.
So perhaps that's the way that mind
and matter can actually be functioning in this field.
No matter what your religious and political views are,
the survival views tend to be very universal.
And I found three different studies,
Fox News, CNN, and another one
found that 90%, they all came up with
the same 90% figure of the population
in the United States believes in God.
So this is very gratifying
that we agree on at least one thing.
And the Supreme Court even affirmed it.
Said "No, we're gonna keep this affirmation
"for the country, in God we trust."
So it's nice to be able to at least reflect upon that
as perhaps now we're finally developing
a culture similar to some of the older cultures
of the far east where this belief in a higher power
is ingrained in our political system.
And in this way it's a matter
of extending our interpretation of a higher power.
Exactly.
And of course that's where the questions may arise.
What type of application can we use?
I've been involved with the U.S. Psychotronics Association
for years and I've constantly seen very effective
radionics practitioners who can do
what I call miraculous things.
Cause trees to bloom in two different ways,
two different fruits, effect weather systems.
I mean heal people at a distance.
The feats they've been able to achieve
through radionics is spectacular.
But when I ask them about doing something
what would you say, a more universal level,
even politically oriented for example.
Influencing peoples decision one way or another.
They shy away from having that type of influence.
And so I feel that perhaps it does take
more people to agree upon a particular goal.
And for example, free energy is probably a great
one to concentrate on.
The health of our sustainability
of our planet and all those species upon it
would be a great unifying goal.
I mean who could object to that?
And that's where the energy sources,
I feel come in.
Because as we try to provide the solar
and the other insulations just to give them
a few lights and a few computers.
If you give them a sustaining energy source
it'll last more than just a decade or two.
Perhaps then the rest of the planet
can actually be habited as well.
And let's look at something,
and also exotic that's something you've
been interested in and working on
and now we're going into another area.
We're talking about healing.
I just wanna bring this up, touch on it a little bit
before we wrap up and that is the notion
of electric clothes.
You just dropped that little one on me
just before the interview,
and I'd like to know more about that.
Well my book "Bioelectricmagnetic Healing"
reviews the basic history and the basic technologies
of high voltage electrotherapy.
And this is another art and medicine
that's actually been lost in the past century.
And it's unfortunate that we went through
a 100 year imposition of pharmaceuticals
on our lifestyle as being the
only solution to health problems.
And what's very fascinating to me,
and this is sort of a growing scientific endeavor,
is that as we look at how the body uses electricity,
one thing I point out in my lectures on it
is that the body tends to store energy in two ways.
There's only two fundamental ways the body stores energy.
And one is by chemical gradients.
And the other is by electrical gradients.
And the electrical gradient to me is very amazing.
Because every cell membrane has the
extraordinary insulation that allows it
to maintain a voltage gradient
of 10,000,000 per meter
or 100,000 volts per centimeter.
And of course the cell membrane's smaller
but that gradient is still exactly that.
And to me that's the electrical energy
that's ready to be used in a number of ways
that we're not even familiar with.
Immune system for example uses it.
So as someone suffers through immune system challenge,
a health challenge,
that gradient, the voltage would actually go down.
Cell potential across the cell membrane.
And this is every cell membrane in the body.
So how can we reverse that for someone
that's undergoing that problem?
Well, sitting next to a high voltage generator,
like a Tesla coil can actually be the
easiest way to induce a high voltage
potential throughout your body.
In other words Tesla was the one
that perceived it first.
He said the body cells, the fatty tissues
act as if they're condensars.
And condensars is just another word for capacitors.
So he found he liked sitting next to
a high voltage Tesla coil that he invented.
(both laugh)
And it was good for his health.
But he didn't quite know why,
but he just knew that he could absorb it
and even be connected to it.
And there's pictures of him holding
light bulbs that lit up in his hand.
I've seen a live demonstration of that,
it's really quite fascinating.
I've done it myself.
In fact I invented an energy chair
which I first started to call an electric chair
but I didn't get a lot of good
reactions from people.
Changed the name.
I was forced to change the name.
Too bad.
But the point is getting electricity into the body
is very healthful if you know how to do it.
And we've discovered the ways
that are 100 years old technology.
High voltage a low current,
the body has tremendous insulation to that
as long as the circuit's designed properly.
So whether you're contacting it or not contacting it
you can still benefit from the electron flow.
Which leads me to the final conclusion
and that is why would you wanna do that.
Well electrons behave as if they're
exactly what vitamin C, and vitamin A,
and Sodium, and Zinc oftentimes give us
and that is antioxidants.
Electrons fulfill what the free radicals want.
And as soon as a free radical gets an electron
it stops doing the chain reaction.
People don't know that for example,
I open my organic chemistry textbook
and right in there is a description
of how chlorine molecule will disassociate
in just body temperatures.
So when you're showering under chlorinated water,
you're literally taking not only a chlorine bath,
but you're allowing that disassociation to happen
and what a single chlorine atom
which is an ion does is it replicates
it's ionic free radical damage 10,000 times.
Oh amazing.
On the average 10,000 times.
So we're getting aging happening every time
we shower without a shower filter.
So I advise everyone to get a charcoal shower filter
from any source and use it.
Just to be able to live a little bit longer
and stay a little bit healthier.
But free radicals are all pervading.
And we're constantly fighting the battle
of them internally and a health challenge
will add more free radical problems.
So my design for this,
and there's many different ways to do it
is to provide clothes are electrified
and provide a little trickle current
along the body surface.
And so we have the Institute for Frontier Sciences
Dr. Beverly Rubik actually doing
measurements right now on the body's meridians.
'Cause my design I would like to do
is to, my wife and I actually
are co-inventing this.
Is to design it so it's compatible
with the body's surface skin circuitry.
And if you're familiar with the "Body Electric" book
by Robert Becker, he's one of the first
to describe this meridian system circuitry that he measured.
Which has been used for thousands of years
in ancient technologies, and in acupuncture,
and so forth, acupressure and beyond.
But from an electrical point of view,
they may not know that the meridians,
which are just surface lines are about
10 times lower in resistance then the rest of the skin.
Mmm hmm, very interesting.
So it's like we've got a built in circuit
that's now gonna be the channel,
and my question is how much can those rivers handle
in terms of electron flow?
To distribute the electrons throughout the body.
So you're actively working on that.
A study's being done right now.
So what do you think in terms of
how far out we are on looking forward to that?
I would say five years we'll actually
be able to buy electric clothes.
There are companies right now that provide
beautiful sports clothing for any temperature.
And they're the type of clothes that are already expensive,
so adding the electric component to them
will actually be helpful for sports athletes.
Athletes need to have more performance.
And if they can attack the free radicals
that are being formed from their exertion,
that'll make their performance even better.
What about for the average person like myself?
Will we be able to--
We won't discriminate, I'm sure the company,
whoever wants to buy them will be fine.
They may not be able
to pay a fortune for them.
Yeah but you're pointing out a very good aspect
and that is to design the clothes simply as well
so that the average person can also purchase them.
Well all of this is exciting.
And we do have places we can begin
and make changes now.
And if you can't go buy a hybrid car
because they're a little pricey too,
then there are other things we can do
to simply be more conscious about the
amount of time we spend in our cars.
Perhaps even getting back to some old fashion
technologies if we're urbanites.
Using bicycles and other means of transportations.
There are things we can do to stop
the flooding of the CO2 into the environment.
And even recycling.
I mean there are plenty of non-profits
that have pointed out that a general
consciouness of our system will also reduce carbon dioxide.
Like for example,
there's a DVD available on stuff.
And I forgot the exact title
but it's very interesting how the DVD
explains every stuff that we buy
is carbon dioxide being emitted somewhere.
Yes, yes.
Well, you've given a lot of food for thought,
and also some nice links here for people
to check into.
And of course they can click on yours
and you have a lot of this on your site right?
Yes.
A lot of this available.
Thank you so much for your time again,
and I think it really does help that not only
do you have this incredibly creative
and technically educated brain,
but also the more subtle and mystical elements
of yourself through your own meditation
and so forth that allow you to explain
this to us in archetypal fashion is really important.
It's time we start seeing the big picture.
Beyond just the physical.
I'm glad to hear you say that.
Thank you.
You're welcome.
(slow paced music)
Please visit Tom's website to subscribe
to Future Energy magazine.
And he says you'll also likely enjoy
a little video called "The Story of Stuff"
which we have on our site.
You can find that on Youtube as well.
In addition to Thomas' magazine
he's also authored a number of books on alternative energy
including "Zero Point Energy: The Fuel of the Future."
You can pick up a copy at Amazon or other book sellers.
Until next time, thanks for watching CMN.
(slow paced music)